---
icon: versions
label: General Overview
order: 10
---
Workflows Management in Atlas CMMS refers to the process of organizing, tracking, and optimizing the various tasks and processes involved in maintenance operations. Workflows Management is essential because, among others, it:

- Provides a structured and detailed approach to maintenance tasks
- Ensures that work is prioritized and assigned appropriately
- Helps track the progress of maintenance activities
- Enables better communication and collaboration among maintenance teams

In a CMMS, there are different types of workflows available, including:

1. __Work Orders:__ a work order is a digital record that specifies and organizes maintenance tasks. It details the necessary steps, assigns personnel, schedules the activity, and allocates required resources. Work orders in a CMMS are used to efficiently track, manage, and document maintenance operations, ensuring tasks are executed according to plan and maintaining a historical record of all maintenance activities. There are two types of work orders:
    1. [__Manual Work Orders:__](./work-order/managing-manual-work-orders.md)There are user\-initiated Work Orders that specifies a maintenance task not generated by automatic triggers. It allows for the scheduling and documenting of ad\-hoc or unexpected maintenance activities.
    2. __Automatic Work Orders:__ These are work orders generated automatically based on predefined triggers or conditions.
2. [__Preventive Maintenance:__](./preventive-maintenance-pm/managing-pm.md) These are scheduled maintenance tasks that are performed at regular intervals to prevent equipment failure and maintain optimal performance.
3. [__Condition\-Based Maintenance:__](./meters/managing-meters.md) These are maintenance tasks that are triggered when certain conditions or thresholds are met, such as when a meter reading reaches a specific value.
4. [__Meter:__](./meters/managing-meters.md) These are measurements or readings taken from equipment or assets to monitor their condition and performance. Meter readings can be used to trigger condition\-based maintenance tasks.
5. [__Work Requests:__](./work-requests/introduction.md) A work request is a communication tool used by employees or facility users to notify the maintenance department of a perceived need for repair or maintenance. Anyone within the organization can submit a work request when they observe malfunctioning equipment, safety issues, or general maintenance needs. The purpose of a work request is to inform the appropriate personnel about potential issues so that they can be evaluated and, if necessary, scheduled for maintenance through a formal work order.

In the following chapter, our focus will be on managing manual work orders, from the perspective of several roles, and in next chapters, we will discuss the management of other types of work orders, such as preventive maintenance or those triggered by a meter.
